---
title: 'a11y'
---

## ARIA

### Rules

1. Use semantic HTML elements and don't override their default HTML roles by using [ARIA roles](#roles).
1. No ARIA is better than bad ARIA.
1. Always support keyboard navigation. You can add `tabindex= "0"` to any element that needs a focus but doesn't normally receive keyboard focus. Avoid using `tabindex` > 0 to prevent potential keyboard focus order issues.

   ```html
   <span role="button" tabindex="0">Submit</span>
   <!-- Don't do this -->
   <span role="button" tabindex="1">Submit</span>
   ```

1. [Don't hide focusable elements](#visually-hide-content-and-make-it-available-only-for-screen-readers)

### Roles

_Roles_ define what an element is or does on the page or app.

```html
<!-- This should be a <button> -->
<div role="button">Read more</div>
```

### States

_States_ define the current condition or data values associated with the element.

```html
<!-- Only invisible to screen readers -->
<div aria-hidden="true">Read more</div>
```

### Properties

_Properties_ define the characteristics or relationships to an object.

```html
<button aria-label="Read more about us">Read More</button>
```

## Visually hide content (and make it available only for screen readers)

- `width: 0; height; 0` is not recommended because search engines might penalize this thinking it has a malicious intention, like keyword stuffing. -> Use `width: 1px; height: 1px` and CSS.
- `display: none`; `visibility: hidden`; `hidden` attribute hide content from the user **AND** screen readers.
- Elements using sth like `position: absolute; left: -99999px` or `text-indent: -9999px` is not recommended because although the content is hided, users can still focus them using keyboard.
- Should use approaches from mature CSS frameworks, which have been battle-tested on many websites, e.g. Tailwind

  ```css
  .sr-only {
    position: absolute;
    width: 1px;
    height: 1px;
    padding: 0;
    margin: -1px;
    overflow: hidden;
    clip: rect(0, 0, 0, 0);
    white-space: nowrap;
    border-width: 0;
  }
  ```
